# TheReckoning

Day 4:
All of the work that I have done so far has been in Twine and writing out the storyline and choices for players out on notecards. I found this “mapping” out of the story and possible pathways for players to choose so much more extensive than I anticipated. At this point, I have almost finished all of the Parent avatar side with the Teacher avatar side still to go. Thinking of all of the possible responses players could choose that determine the dialogue and final outcome of the game is quite exhausting and I have had to narrow my scope a quite a bit. I look forward to expanding these choices, dialogues, and outcomes in the future. Working with notecards has helped me streamline the creation process because I visually place each notecard in a visual order and refer to any previous notecards that I need. This was too difficult doing in Twine as I found myself needing to refer back to other screens and trying to remember the overall pathways.

I have yet to get into GitHub but I anticipate having all of the storyline completed and in Twine and work on the GitHub tomorrow. I also found a source about “keeping score” in Twine using another tool so I do think this is possible. If I run out of time in this workshop, I think I may just have pages with reflection questions for players to answer after playing the game. I have certainly taken the advice to heart about focusing on the structure of the game and paying little to no attention to the visual aspects of the game at this point. While this process has been more extensive than I anticipated, I have been enjoying the work I am doing so that is a plus! I look forward to shifting my focus into getting the storyline in Twine and GitHub setup tomorrow.

Day 5:
Today feels like it is hump day for me. I found myself needing to take short breaks every 1-2 hours. I got most of the vast majority of the cards filled out for the storyline and various pathways. I did need to scale down my scope as I planned on having two scenarios to choose from for the teacher role and two scenarios for the parent role. However, due to the limited time frame for this workshop, that got to be too much too fast. I have determined for the time being that we are just going to have one main storyline for each of the roles with various pathways to choose from. While I do anticipate including more scenarios for each role in the future, one scenario for each role is substantial for this proof of concept.

While seeing how fast the pathways seemed to multiply exponentially when mapping my thoughts out on notecards, I have determined the "scores" for each of the choices players will make. This led me to determine that I would present a score card of point ranges for players to evaluate and use to determine if they want to replay the game or not. Each role will have their own score card indicating the threshold needed to earn the Premium Parent and the Terrific Teacher badges. Revealing these score cards at the end rather than the beginning will motivate players in their first run of the game to play around with different pathways to see the ramifications and outcomes without just trying to select "the best answer." This should also motivate players to replay the game and ultimately see a bigger picture each time they play regarding the implications of their choices.

At this point, I am finishing up getting all of the slides or pages in Twine with the score/variable feature working properly which is my goal by the end of today. This way, tomorrow I can focus on getting GitHub setup, working out any bugs, and maybe even working on some of the visual aspects of the game. While I consistently enjoy working on this project, it is taking more time than I anticipated by 4-5x. This is surely testing my ability to stay within the scope and time restrictions while noting ideas that I could add later. I thoroughly appreciate this workshop experience but do look forward to setting my own deadlines for the project.
